# Optimization with parallelism of 3d fluid simulation code

In the Table presents the execution time measurements for the original, sequential, CUDA, and OpenMP versions, obtained using the K-Best Heuristic with K=5 and 15 measurements to ensure replicability. The results provide a comparison of performance across these different implementations. The original version uses the original solver, whereas the other three versions use the red-black solver.


## Phase 1

In the first analysis we focus on simple single core/threaded optimizations with a 3D grid size of internal cells of 42, starting by profiling our application to see the critical areas in performance and then identifying performance inefficiencies including code analysis and performance metrics such as CPI (Cycles Per Instruction), cache miss rates, etc. then applying optimization techniques to enhance computational efficiency while preserving output precision.

## Phase 2

After that we started to improve the parallelism with multithreading and multiple cores using OpenMP, following the same approach: identifying bottlenecks, restructuring the algorithm, and using OpenMP constructs. Additionally, we doubled the 3D grid size of internal cells to 82, increasing the problem size by eight times.

## Phase 3

Finally, we raised the level of parallelism even further by programming the program to run on a GPU (NVIDIA Kepler K20), always following the same methodology. The 3D grid size of internal cells has been increased to 168 in each dimension, which means we have once again increased the size of the problem by 8 times

## Estrutura do Projeto

```plaintext
/3dfluid
  ├── README.md            # This file
  ├── events.txt           # Example event file (can be generated by Python script)
  ├── fluid_solver.h       # Header for fluid solver functions
  ├── fluid_solver.cpp     # Implementation of the fluid solver
  ├── EventManager.h       # Header for managing events (sources and forces)
  ├── EventManager.cpp     # Implementation for reading and applying events
  ├── main.cpp             # Main simulation logic that uses the fluid solver and EventManager
  ├── generate_events.py   # Python script to generate events for the simulation
  └── Makefile             # Makefile to compile the C++ simulation
```

